---
title: Overview
description: "Nuxt module for integration with Galaxy"
links:
  - icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/rplanel/GaaS/tree/main/packages/nuxt-galaxy
    label: GitHub
  - icon: i-simple-icons-nuxt
    to: https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/modules
    label: Nuxt Modules
---

It integrates with Galaxy Project, a data analysis platform.

### Features

- Provide composables to consume Nuxt Server endpoints.
- Extract useful data to display in the client from Galaxy REST API objects.
- Reactive state management for Galaxy workflows and analyses
- Type-safe integration with Supabase database operations
- Comprehensive error handling and user feedback mechanisms
- File management and storage capabilities

## Server

The server component acts as a thin layer that provides a set of endpoints to interact with Galaxy
and synchronize data with the database.
It leverages the [Nuxt Server Engine](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/server-engine) for handling server-side operations.

For Galaxy integration, it utilizes [Blendtype](/packages/blendtype) to interact with
the Galaxy REST API.
This package provides authentication to Galaxy using Galaxy API Key and offers a set of functions to consume Galaxy API. While it currently supports a subset of Galaxy API endpoints, the architecture is designed to be extensible to accommodate additional endpoints as needed.

Database interactions are managed through [Drizzle ORM](https://orm.drizzle.team),
which provides a type-safe and efficient way to work with the database layer.

## Database

It uses [Supabase](https://supabase.com/) to store data related to Galaxy workflows, such as histories, datasets, and workflow invocations.

It provides:

- authentication
- globally distributed Realtime service to listen to Database changes and send them to authorized users.
- storage

## Installation

::steps{level="4" title="Installation Steps"}

#### Install the `nuxt-galaxy` module

To install the `nuxt-galaxy` module, add it to your Nuxt project:

```terminal [pnpm]
pnpm add nuxt-galaxy
```

#### Add `nuxt-galaxy` module to your Nuxt project

Then, add `nuxt-galaxy` to the modules section of your `nuxt.config.ts` file:

```typescript [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ["nuxt-galaxy"],
});
```

#### Install Supabase CLI

To use the Supabase features, you need to install the Supabase CLI. You can install it globally using npm:

```terminal [pnpm]
pnpm add -D supabase
```

#### Start Supabase locally

You can start Supabase locally using the following command:

```terminal [pnpm]
pnpm supabase --workdir ./node_modules/nuxt-galaxy start
```
or configure a script in your `package.json`:

```json [package.json]
{
  "scripts": {
    "supabase:start": "pnpm supabase --workdir ./node_modules/nuxt-galaxy start"
  }
}
```

Then, you can run the command:

```terminal [pnpm]
pnpm run supabase:start
```


#### Configure the module

Add environment variables to your `.env` file to configure the module:

```bash [.env]
# Galaxy
GALAXY_URL="<galaxy-server-url>"
GALAXY_API_KEY="<api-key>"
GALAXY_EMAIL="galaxy-email"
# Supabase
SUPABASE_URL="<supabase-url>"
SUPABASE_KEY="<supabase-key>"

DATABASE_URL=""


```

You need to set the following environment variables:

- `SUPABASE_URL`: The URL of your Supabase project.
- `SUPABASE_KEY`: The API key of your Supabase project.
- `GALAXY_API_KEY`: The API key of your Galaxy instance.
- `GALAXY_URL`: The URL of your Galaxy instance.

::
