---
title : Overview
description: GaaSʼs goal is to make the development of a workflow web interface easy.
---

## Why GaaS ?

The [Galaxy Project](https://galaxyproject.org/) has emerged as a cornerstone platform in bioinformatics, providing access to
a comprehensive suite of tools for data-intensive analysis. While Galaxy’s REST API offers powerful
functionality, the web interface can be particularly overwhelming for end-users who simply want to
run a speciﬁc workﬂow.

Fortunately, this same API allows developers to create their own custom web interfaces 
tailored to speciﬁc tools or workﬂows. 
However, building such interfaces presents numerous practical challenges, including:
- **Authentication**: Managing user authentication and authorization securely is not trivial to implement.
- **Data storage**: Storing user data and results in a way that is both secure and accessible.
- **UI/UX design**: Creating a user-friendly interface that abstracts the complexity of Galaxy’s API.


## GaaS

GaaS (Galaxy as a Service) is a typescript toolkit designed speciﬁcally for web developers 
who want to create custom web applications to interface analysis workflows.
GaaS leverages the [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/) and [Vue](https://vuejs.org/) ecosystem to streamline the development process, 
allowing developers to focus on creating specialized visualization and data exploration interfaces. 





### Packages
GaaS is composed of several packages:

::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  icon: file-icons:galaxy
  target: _blank
  title: Blendtype
  to: /packages/blendtype
  ---
  Typescript client to interact with the Galaxy REST API.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: ph:cube
  target: _blank
  title: nuxt-galaxy
  to: /packages/nuxt-galaxy
  ---
  Nuxt module that integrates with Galaxy Project. 
  It provides authentication handling and data persistence 
  with Supabase.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: lucide:layers-3
  target: _blank
  title: GaaS UI
  to: https://image.nuxt.com
  ---
  Nuxt layer built on top of nuxt-galaxy that provides pre-built pages and layouts.
  :::

  
  :::card
  ---
  icon: lucide:layers-3
  target: _blank
  title: GaaS Wiki
  to: https://content.nuxt.com
  ---
  Nuxt layer providing comprehensive documentation and wiki capabilities
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: lucide:layers-3
  target: _blank
  title: GaaS llm
  to: https://content.nuxt.com
  ---
  Nuxt layer that provide a chatbot on top of wiki content and bibliography.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: heroicons:command-line
  target: _blank
  title: GaaS CLI
  to: https://content.nuxt.com
  ---
  Command line interface to build bibliography content and RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) capabilities.
  :::

::

## Key Features

- **Galaxy Integration**: Seamlessly integrates with Galaxy to manage data and run workflows.
- **Nuxt Ecosystem**: Leverages the Nuxt ecosystem for a modern and performant web interface.
- **Database Support**: Uses Supabase for data storage, authentication and permissions.
- **Pre-built Components**: Provides a set of pre-built components and pages to speed up development.
- **Extensible**: Easily extensible with custom components and pages by leveraging Nuxt’s layer capabilities.
- **UI Components**: Offers a set of UI components to automatically build .